feat: cookbook v1 (#9)
rust-bitcoin/www.rust-bitcoin.org: cookbook/src/tx_segwit-v0.md

        sequence: Sequence::ENABLE_RBF_NO_LOCKTIME,
        witness: Witness::default(),
    };

    // The spend output is locked to a key controlled by the receiver.
    let spend = TxOut {
        value: SPEND_AMOUNT,
        script_pubkey: address.script_pubkey(),
    };

    // The change output is locked to a key controlled by us.
    let change = TxOut {
        value: CHANGE_AMOUNT,
        script_pubkey: ScriptBuf::new_v0_p2wpkh(&wpkh),
    };

    // The transaction we want to sign and broadcast.
    let unsigned_tx = Transaction {
        version: 2,
        lock_time: absolute::LockTime::from_height(0).expect("valid height"),
        input: vec![input],
        output: vec![spend, change],
    };

    // Sign the unsigned transaction.
    let mut sighash_cache = SighashCache::new(unsigned_tx);
    let sighash = sighash_cache
        .segwit_signature_hash(0, &script_code, DUMMY_UTXO_AMOUNT, EcdsaSighashType::All)
        .expect("valid sighash");
    let msg = Message::from(sighash);
    let sig = secp.sign_ecdsa(&msg, &sk);
    // Update the witness stack
    sighash_cache
        .witness_mut(0)
        .expect("valid witness")

>         .push_bitcoin_signature(&sig.serialize_der(), EcdsaSighashType::All);

Reviewer: pubkey should be pushed here after the signature.

Author: fixed

>         .push_bitcoin_signature(&sig.serialize_der(), EcdsaSighashType::All);

Author: ```suggestion
        .push_bitcoin_signature(&sig.serialize_der(), EcdsaSighashType::All)
        .push(sk.public_key(&secp));
```

You mean this @tcharding?

Reviewer: Need to serialize the pubkey, see https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/2084/files

Author: Solvet in f5d3fbda03ba7b07e21f8d256a9028872eaa6122

        sequence: Sequence::ENABLE_RBF_NO_LOCKTIME,
        witness: Witness::default(),
    };

    // The spend output is locked to a key controlled by the receiver.
    let spend = TxOut {
        value: SPEND_AMOUNT,
        script_pubkey: address.script_pubkey(),
    };

    // The change output is locked to a key controlled by us.
    let change = TxOut {
        value: CHANGE_AMOUNT,
        script_pubkey: ScriptBuf::new_v0_p2wpkh(&wpkh),
    };

    // The transaction we want to sign and broadcast.
    let unsigned_tx = Transaction {
        version: 2,
        lock_time: absolute::LockTime::from_height(0).expect("valid height"),
        input: vec![input],
        output: vec![spend, change],
    };

    // Sign the unsigned transaction.
    let mut sighash_cache = SighashCache::new(unsigned_tx);
    let sighash = sighash_cache
        .segwit_signature_hash(0, &script_code, DUMMY_UTXO_AMOUNT, EcdsaSighashType::All)
        .expect("valid sighash");
    let msg = Message::from(sighash);
    let sig = secp.sign_ecdsa(&msg, &sk);

    // Update the witness stack
    let signature = Signature { sig, hash_ty: EcdsaSighashType::All };
    let pk = sk.public_key(&secp);

>     *sighash_cache.witness_mut(input_index).unwrap() = Witness::p2wpkh(&signature, &pk);

Reviewer: Excuse me if I'm being slow but I'm confused as to why this in here, we run the tests against the latest release v.0.30.0 not against master?

Author: Reverted back to `0.30`

# Constructing and Signing Transactions - SegWit V0

> In this section, we will construct a [SegWit V0 transaction](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/segregated-witness/).

Reviewer: Awesome choice of reference.

This is the most common type of transaction on the Bitcoin network today[^today].

This is the `cargo` commands that you need to run this example:

```bash
cargo add bitcoin --features "std, rand-std"
```

First we'll need to import the following:

```rust
use std::str::FromStr;

use bitcoin::hashes::Hash;
use bitcoin::locktime::absolute;
use bitcoin::secp256k1::{rand, Message, Secp256k1, SecretKey, Signing};
use bitcoin::sighash::{EcdsaSighashType, SighashCache};
use bitcoin::{
    Address, Network, OutPoint, ScriptBuf, Sequence, Transaction, TxIn, TxOut, Txid, WPubkeyHash,
    Witness,
};
```

Here is the logic behind these imports:

- `std::str::FromStr` is used to parse strings into Bitcoin primitives
- `bitcoin::hashes::Hash` is used to hash data
- `bitcoin::locktime::absolute` is used to create a locktime
- `bitcoin::secp256k1::{rand, Message, Secp256k1, SecretKey, Signing}` is used to sign transactions
- `bitcoin::sighash::{EcdsaSighashType, SighashCache}` is used to create sighashes
- `bitcoin::{Address, Network, OutPoint, ScriptBuf, Sequence, Transaction, TxIn, TxOut, Txid, WPubkeyHash, Witness}` is used to construct transactions

Next, we define the following constants:

> ```rust

Reviewer: It would be nice if we could get syntax highlighting, using `mdbook serve` I don't get it. https://rust-lang.github.io/mdBook/format/theme/syntax-highlighting.html seems to say that we should get it by default since we use '```rust'?

Author: This is strange... What version of `mdbook` are you using?
This is what I get from a `mdbook serve` in the `tx_segwit-v0` page:
<img width="791" alt="image" src="https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/www.rust-bitcoin.org/assets/136860407/8221e5e1-d30b-4df4-af97-cff13a9345ec">

Reviewer: Oh cool, not to worry then. FWIW `mdbook v0.4.25`

Finally, we use the `PublicKey::wpubkey_hash` method to derive the corresponding public key hash `wpkh`.
Note that `senders_keys` is generic over the [`Signing`](https://docs.rs/secp256k1/latest/secp256k1/trait.Signing.html) trait.
This is used to indicate that is an instance of `Secp256k1` and can be used for signing.
We conclude returning the private key `sk` and the public key hash `wpkh` as a tuple.

```rust
# use std::str::FromStr;
# use bitcoin::{Address, Network};
fn receivers_address() -> Address {
    Address::from_str("bc1q7cyrfmck2ffu2ud3rn5l5a8yv6f0chkp0zpemf")
        .expect("a valid address")
        .require_network(Network::Bitcoin)
        .expect("valid address for mainnet")
}
```

`receivers_address` generates a receiver address.
In a real application this would be the address of the receiver.
We use the method `Address::from_str` to parse the string `"bc1q7cyrfmck2ffu2ud3rn5l5a8yv6f0chkp0zpemf"` into an address.
Hence, it is necessary to import the `std::str::FromStr` trait.
Note that `bc1q7cyrfmck2ffu2ud3rn5l5a8yv6f0chkp0zpemf` is a [Bech32](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/bech32/) address.
This is an arbitrary, however valid, Bitcoin mainnet address,

> since we use the `require_network` method to ensure that the address is valid for the mainnet.

Reviewer: Perhaps?
```suggestion
This is an arbitrary, however valid, Bitcoin mainnet address.
Hence we use the `require_network` method to ensure that the address is valid for mainnet.
```

```rust
# use bitcoin::{OutPoint, ScriptBuf, TxOut, Txid, WPubkeyHash};
# use bitcoin::hashes::Hash;
# const DUMMY_UTXO_AMOUNT: u64 = 20_000_000;
fn dummy_unspent_transaction_output(wpkh: &WPubkeyHash) -> (OutPoint, TxOut) {
    let script_pubkey = ScriptBuf::new_v0_p2wpkh(wpkh);

    let out_point = OutPoint {
        txid: Txid::all_zeros(), // Obviously invalid.
        vout: 0,
    };

    let utxo = TxOut {
        value: DUMMY_UTXO_AMOUNT,
        script_pubkey,
    };

    (out_point, utxo)
}
```

`dummy_unspent_transaction_output` generates a dummy unspent transaction output (UTXO).

> This is a SegWit V0 P2WPKH (`ScriptBuf::new_v0_p2wpkh`) UTXO with a dummy invalid transaction ID (`txid: Txid::all_zeros()`),

Reviewer: hmmm, this is going to go stale in next release. I mention it because it highlights that this cookbook is going to take some careful maintenance to make  sure it doesn't go stale. Perhaps we should hack up a script that pulls out everything between code ticks then we can look it over each release and see if anything jumps out at us?

Author: We will be testing this extensively.

We are now only testing for `bitcoin@v0.30`:

https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/www.rust-bitcoin.org/blob/b4bc52864a9144333933b800536c197dddf70fbf/cookbook/tests/Cargo.toml#L9

However, we have a dependabot routine that will update weekly the dependencies in `Cargo.toml`, which includes `bitcoin`:

https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/www.rust-bitcoin.org/blob/b4bc52864a9144333933b800536c197dddf70fbf/.github/dependabot.yml#L9-L13

So this would open a dependabot PR for updating `bitcoin` to a new version and then we would test the cookbook code against a new version of `bitcoin`.
This is possible because of:

https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/www.rust-bitcoin.org/blob/b4bc52864a9144333933b800536c197dddf70fbf/.github/workflows/test.yml#L14-L28

Reviewer: Yeah but the function name I commented on just appears in text, its not in a rust code block. By maintenance burden I meant that, as it stands, we really have to re-read the whole cookbook each release and make sure none of the mentioned functions have changed names.

and a value of the `const DUMMY_UTXO_AMOUNT` that we defined earlier.
We are using the [`OutPoint`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.OutPoint.html) struct to represent the transaction output.
Finally, we return the tuple `(out_point, utxo)`.

> Now we are ready for our main function that will sign a transaction that spends an `p2wpkh` unspent output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we are ready for our main function that will sign a transaction that spends a `p2wpkh` unspent output:
```

Inside the [`TxIn`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.TxIn.html) struct we are setting the following fields:

- `previous_output` is the outpoint of the dummy UTXO we are spending; it is a [`OutPoint`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.OutPoint.html) type.
- `script_sig` is the script code required to spend a P2WPKH output; it is a [`ScriptBuf`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/script/struct.ScriptBuf.html) type.
   Since it needs to take ownership over the `script_sig`, we clone `script_code`.
- `sequence` is the sequence number; it is a [`Sequence`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.Sequence.html) type.
   We are using the [`ENABLE_RBF_NO_LOCKTIME`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.Sequence.html#associatedconstant.ENABLE_RBF_NO_LOCKTIME) constant.
- `witness` is the witness stack; it is a [`Witness`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.Witness.html) type.
   We are using the [`default`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.Witness.html#impl-Default) method.

>    This is possible because `Witness` implements the [`Default`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/default/trait.Default.html) trait.

Reviewer: Perhaps it would be better to say something like "we use default to create an empty witness that will be filled in later after signing"

In `let spend = TxOut {...}` we are instantiating the spend output.
Inside the [`TxOut`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.TxOut.html) struct we are setting the following fields:

- `value` is the amount we are spending; it is a [`u64`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/primitive.u64.html) type.
   We are using the `const SPEND_AMOUNT` that we defined earlier.
- `script_pubkey` is the script code required to spend a P2WPKH output; it is a [`ScriptBuf`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/script/struct.ScriptBuf.html) type.

>    We are using the [`script_pubkey`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/address/struct.Address.html#method.script_pubkey) method to generate the script code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   We are using the [`script_pubkey`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/address/struct.Address.html#method.script_pubkey) method to generate the script pubkey from the receivers address.
```

(Not sure just this second what form we are using for "script pubkey" (ie., "scriptPubkey").

We set the following fields:

- `version` is the transaction version; it is a [`i32`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/primitive.u32.html) type.
   We are using version `2` which means that [BIP68](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0068.mediawiki) applies.
- `lock_time` is the transaction lock time;
   it is a [`LockTime`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/locktime/absolute/enum.LockTime.html) enum.
   We are using the [`from_height`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/locktime/absolute/enum.LockTime.html#method.from_height) method to set the lock time to the height `0`.
   This will make the transaction valid immediately.
- `input` is the input vector; it is a [`Vec<TxIn>`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/vec/struct.Vec.html) type.
   We are using the `input` variable that we defined earlier wrapped in the [`vec!`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/macro.vec.html) macro for convenient initialization.
- `output` is the output vector; it is a [`Vec<TxOut>`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/vec/struct.Vec.html) type.

>    We are using the `spend` and `change` variables that we defined earlier wrapped in the [`vec!`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/macro.vec.html) macro for convenient initialization.

Reviewer: Perhaps mention that order does not matter but by convention it goes `[spend, change]` (I think that is the convention anyways).

Author: I didn't understand what you meant

Reviewer: In the code the outputs vector is `[spend, change]` but could have been `[change, spend]`. Both are correct (I believe), when I wrote this I spent a little time looking up if there was a convention on this and it seems that `[spend, change]` is it but I'm not 100% sure (I could be mixing it up with the fact that in derivation path 0 is external and 1 is change) .

In `let mut sighash_cache = SighashCache::new(unsigned_tx);` we are instantiating a [`SighashCache`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/sighash/struct.SighashCache.html) struct.

> This is a type that ffficiently calculates [signature hash message](https://developer.bitcoin.org/devguide/transactions.html?highlight=sighash_all#signature-hash-types) for legacy, segwit and taproot inputs.

Reviewer: typo "efficiently"

We are using the `new` method to instantiate the struct with the `unsigned_tx` that we defined earlier.
`new` takes any `Borrow<Transaction>` as an argument.
[`Borrow<T>`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/borrow/trait.Borrow.html) is a trait that allows us to pass either a reference to a `T` or a `T` itself.

> Hence, you can pass a `Transaction` or a `&Transaction` to `new`.

Reviewer: Interesting, I would have expected this to mention `BorrowMut` but for some reason the code works without a mutable borrow - I don't actually understand how we are calling `tx.borrow_mut()` when the tx is only `Borrow` - bizzare. No action required, just mentioning.

Author: I think that
```rust
let mut sighash_cache = SighashCache::new(unsigned_tx);
```

actually takes ownership of `unsigned_tx`

We are not calling borrow under the hood,
see: https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/src/bitcoin/crypto/sighash.rs.html#557-559

Reviewer: > actually takes ownership of `unsigned_tx`

Correct but the tx is of type `R: Borrow<Transaction>`

> We are not calling borrow under the hood,

On line 1080 of the same page you link to we call `self.tx.borrow_mut()`

https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/src/bitcoin/crypto/sighash.rs.html#1079

> `sighash_cache` is instantiated as mutable because we will be updating it by adding a [`segwit_signature_hash`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/sighash/struct.SighashCache.html#method.segwit_signature_hash) to it.

Reviewer: This is not exactly true, perhaps
```
`sighash_cache` is instantiated as mutable because we require a mutable reference when creating the sighash to sign using [`segwit_signature_hash`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/sighash/struct.SighashCache.html#method.segwit_signature_hash).

This computes the [BIP143](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0143.mediawiki) sighash for any flag type.
It takes the following arguments:

- `input_index` is the index of the input we are signing; it is a [`usize`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/primitive.usize.html) type.
   We are using `0` since we only have one input.
- `script_code` is the script code required to spend a P2WPKH output; it is a reference to [`Script`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/script/struct.Script.html) type.
   We are using the `script_code` variable that we defined earlier.
- `value` is the amount of the UTXO we are spending; it is a [`u64`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/primitive.u64.html) type.
   We are using the `const DUMMY_UTXO_AMOUNT` that we defined earlier.
- `sighash_type` is the type of sighash; it is a [`EcdsaSighashType`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/sighash/enum.EcdsaSighashType.html) enum.
   We are using the [`All`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/sighash/enum.EcdsaSighashType.html#variant.All) variant,

>    that sign all the outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   which indicates that the sighash will include all the outputs.
```

> We compute the message `msg` by converting the `sighash` to a [`Message`](https://docs.rs/secp256k1/latest/secp256k1/struct.Message.html) type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We create the message `msg` by converting the `sighash` to a [`Message`](https://docs.rs/secp256k1/latest/secp256k1/struct.Message.html) type.
```

> This is a hashed message input to an ECDSA signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 This is the message that we will sign.
```

Author: Can we remove the empty space ` ` in the beginning of the line?

Reviewer: Seems so, typo by me I'd say.

> The [Message::from](https://docs.rs/secp256k1/latest/secp256k1/struct.Message.html#impl-From%3C%26%27_%20bitcoin%3A%3Ahashes%3A%3Asha256d%3A%3AHash%3E) method takes anything that implements the [`Hash` trait](https://docs.rs/bitcoin_hashes/latest/bitcoin_hashes/trait.Hash.html) as an argument[^ThirtyTwoByteHash].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Message::from](https://docs.rs/secp256k1/latest/secp256k1/struct.Message.html#impl-From%3C%26%27_%20bitcoin%3A%3Ahashes%3A%3Asha256d%3A%3AHash%3E) method takes anything that promises to be a thirty two byte hash i.e., 32 bytes that came from a cryptographically secuer hashing algorithm.
```

Author: There's a typo... `secuer` -> `secure`

We compute the signature `sig` by using the [`sign_ecdsa`](https://docs.rs/secp256k1/latest/secp256k1/struct.Secp256k1.html#method.sign_ecdsa) method.
It takes a refence to a [`Message`](https://docs.rs/secp256k1/latest/secp256k1/struct.Message.html) and a reference to a [`SecretKey`](https://docs.rs/secp256k1/latest/secp256k1/struct.SecretKey.html) as arguments,
and returns a [`Signature`](https://docs.rs/secp256k1/latest/secp256k1/ecdsa/struct.Signature.html) type.

> In the next step, we update the `sighash_cache` first with [`witness_mut`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/sighash/struct.SighashCache.html#method.witness_mut) method.

Reviewer: Perhaps?
```suggestion
In the next step, we update the witness stack for the input we just signed using the `SighashCache::witness_mut`(https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/sighash/struct.SighashCache.html#method.witness_mut) method.
```

Author: This would not render a markdown link, we are missing the brackets `[ ]`.

> This allows us to modify the witness stack of the input we are signing.

Reviewer: And drop this one.

It returns an [`Option<&mut Witness>`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/witness/struct.Witness.html) type.

> Next, the witness stack is by using the [`push_bitcoin_signature`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/witness/struct.Witness.html#method.push_bitcoin_signature) method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the [`push_bitcoin_signature`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/witness/struct.Witness.html#method.push_bitcoin_signature) method.
```

It expects two arguments:

1. A reference to a [`SerializedSignature`](https://docs.rs/secp256k1/0.27.0/secp256k1/ecdsa/serialized_signature/struct.SerializedSignature.html) type.
   This is accomplished by calling the [`serialize_der`](https://docs.rs/secp256k1/latest/secp256k1/ecdsa/struct.Signature.html#method.serialize_der) method on the `Signature` `sig`,
   which returns a `SerializedSignature` type.
1. A [`EcdsaSighashType`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/sighash/enum.EcdsaSighashType.html) enum.
   Again we are using the same [`All`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/sighash/enum.EcdsaSighashType.html#variant.All) variant that we used earlier.

> 

Reviewer: Here we need to push the public key as well (this was a bug in my solution to the workshop found by @sanket1729, an attempt to improve the API is made here: https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/2084

Author: Ok I am following the PR. From my understanding, this does not change the code we will show in the cookbook.

Reviewer: The code is missing the push of the pubkey, I commented on the line of code where its needed. The PR I linked to adds a function so that one does not have to push the sig and keys separately but it won't be there till next release.

Author: fixed

> Finally, we convert the `sighash_cache` back to a [`Transaction`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.Transaction.html) type by using the [`into_transaction`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/sighash/struct.SighashCache.html#method.into_transaction) method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we destroy the `sighash_cache` and get out the signed [`Transaction`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.Transaction.html) type by using the [`into_transaction`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/sighash/struct.SighashCache.html#method.into_transaction) method.
```

As the last step we print this to terminal using the [`println!`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/macro.println.html) macro.

> This transaction is now ready to be broadcasted to the Bitcoin network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This transaction is now ready to be broadcast to the Bitcoin network.
```

[^today]: mid-2023.

[^change]: Please note that the `CHANGE_AMOUNT` is not the same as the `DUMMY_UTXO_AMOUNT` minus the `SPEND_AMOUNT`.
           This is due to the fact that we need to pay a fee for the transaction.

[^expect]: We will be unwraping any [`Option<T>`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/option)/[`Result<T, E>`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/result) with the `expect` method.

> [^ThirtyTwoByteHash]: Additionally it is also necessary that the hash is 32-bytes long.

Reviewer: If you decide to use my suggestion then this goes away. I'm not sure we should bother folk at this level with info on this trait.

# Constructing and Signing Transactions - SegWit V0

In this section, we will construct a [SegWit V0 transaction](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/segregated-witness/).
This is the most common type of transaction on the Bitcoin network today[^today].

This is the `cargo` commands that you need to run this example:

```bash

> cargo add bitcoin --features "std, rand-std"

Reviewer 2: @tcharding, I think this is bug in rust-bitcoin. I would expect `rand-std` to include `std`.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/2102

```rust
const DUMMY_UTXO_AMOUNT: u64 = 20_000_000;
const SPEND_AMOUNT: u64 = 5_000_000;
const CHANGE_AMOUNT: u64 = 14_999_000; // 1000 sat fee.
```

- `DUMMY_UTXO_AMOUNT` is the amount of the dummy UTXO we will be spending
- `SPEND_AMOUNT` is the amount we will be spending from the dummy UTXO
- `CHANGE_AMOUNT`[^change] is the amount we will be sending back to ourselves as change

Before we can construct the transaction, we need to define some helper functions[^expect]:

```rust
# use bitcoin::secp256k1::{rand, Secp256k1, SecretKey, Signing};
# use bitcoin::WPubkeyHash;
fn senders_keys<C: Signing>(secp: &Secp256k1<C>) -> (SecretKey, WPubkeyHash) {
    let sk = SecretKey::new(&mut rand::thread_rng());
    let pk = bitcoin::PublicKey::new(sk.public_key(secp));
    let wpkh = pk.wpubkey_hash().expect("key is compressed");

    (sk, wpkh)
}
```

`senders_keys` generates a random private key and derives the corresponding public key hash.
This will be useful to mock a sender.
In a real application these would be actual secrets.
Under the hood we are using the [`secp256k1`](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-secp256k1/) crate to generate the key pair.

> `rust-secp256k1` is a wrapper around [libsecp256k1](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1), a C

Reviewer 2: nit: Please don't bother changing unless there are other things that you are changing anyways.

This mention of secp and rust-secp seems like a good candidate for a footnote  and not directly relevant to the code.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. Done in f89936122927a1add2f309316ee924c644329c85

Author: Both in Segwit and Taproot

# 
#     (sk, wpkh)
# }
# 
# 
# fn receivers_address() -> Address {
#     Address::from_str("bc1q7cyrfmck2ffu2ud3rn5l5a8yv6f0chkp0zpemf")
#         .expect("a valid address")
#         .require_network(Network::Bitcoin)
#         .expect("valid address for mainnet")
# }
# 
# fn dummy_unspent_transaction_output(wpkh: &WPubkeyHash) -> (OutPoint, TxOut) {
#     let script_pubkey = ScriptBuf::new_v0_p2wpkh(wpkh);
# 
#     let out_point = OutPoint {
#         txid: Txid::all_zeros(), // Obviously invalid.
#         vout: 0,
#     };
# 
#     let utxo = TxOut {
#         value: DUMMY_UTXO_AMOUNT,
#         script_pubkey,
#     };
# 
#     (out_point, utxo)
# }

fn main() {
    let secp = Secp256k1::new();
    let (sk, wpkh) = senders_keys(&secp);
    let address = receivers_address();
    let (dummy_out_point, dummy_utxo) = dummy_unspent_transaction_output(&wpkh);

    // The script code required to spend a p2wpkh output.
    let script_code = dummy_utxo
        .script_pubkey
        .p2wpkh_script_code()
        .expect("valid script");

    // The input for the transaction we are constructing.
    let input = TxIn {
        previous_output: dummy_out_point,

>         script_sig: script_code.clone(),

Reviewer 2: script_sig should be empty. (ScriptBuf::new() ) `script_code` is only used for signing.

Author: Done in f89936122927a1add2f309316ee924c644329c85
Not applicable to Taproot since it already uses `Scriptbuf::new`

        sequence: Sequence::ENABLE_RBF_NO_LOCKTIME,
        witness: Witness::default(),
    };

    // The spend output is locked to a key controlled by the receiver.
    let spend = TxOut {
        value: SPEND_AMOUNT,
        script_pubkey: address.script_pubkey(),
    };

    // The change output is locked to a key controlled by us.
    let change = TxOut {
        value: CHANGE_AMOUNT,
        script_pubkey: ScriptBuf::new_v0_p2wpkh(&wpkh),
    };

    // The transaction we want to sign and broadcast.
    let unsigned_tx = Transaction {
        version: 2,

>         lock_time: absolute::LockTime::from_height(0).expect("valid height"),

Reviewer 2: We should do `absolute::LockTime::ZERO`

Author: Good catch, makes it much more simpler.
Done in f89936122927a1add2f309316ee924c644329c85,
also updated the explanation (both in Segwit and Taproot).

        input: vec![input],
        output: vec![spend, change],
    };

    // Sign the unsigned transaction.
    let mut sighash_cache = SighashCache::new(unsigned_tx);
    let sighash = sighash_cache
        .segwit_signature_hash(0, &script_code, DUMMY_UTXO_AMOUNT, EcdsaSighashType::All)
        .expect("valid sighash");
    let msg = Message::from(sighash);
    let sig = secp.sign_ecdsa(&msg, &sk);

    // Update the witness stack
    let pk = sk.public_key(&secp);
    sighash_cache
        .witness_mut(0)
        .expect("valid witness")
        .push_bitcoin_signature(&sig.serialize_der(), EcdsaSighashType::All);
    sighash_cache
        .witness_mut(0)
        .expect("valid witness")
        .push(&pk.serialize());

    // Print the transaction ready to broadcast

>     let tx = sighash_cache.into_transaction();

Reviewer 2: While `sighash_cache::witness_mut` this is a fine way to do sighash operations, I feel that it really non-intuitive. It is primarily to avoid allocations when iterating through tx inputs while creating witnesses. 

I feel the below is better for a tutorial/cookbook.

```rust
    // Update the witness wpkh stack: signature + public key.
    let pk = sk.public_key(&secp);
    let mut witness = &mut tx.input[0].witness;

    witness.push_bitcoin_signature(
        &sig.serialize_der(),
        EcdsaSighashType::All
    );
    witness.push(&pk.serialize());
```

Author: I've updated how we are mutating the witness in both segwit and taproot with your suggestion.
Can you check it now please?

All of these are helper functions that we defined earlier.

`let script_code = dummy_utxo.script_pubkey.p2wpkh_script_code().expect("valid script");`
creates the script code required to spend a P2WPKH output.
Since `dummy_utxo` is a [`TxOut`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.TxOut.html) type,
we can access the underlying public field `script_pubkey` which, in turn is a [`Script`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/script/struct.Script.html) type.
We then use the [`p2wpkh_script_code`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/script/struct.ScriptBuf.html#method.p2wpkh_script_code) method to generate the script code.

In `let input = TxIn {...}` we are instantiating the input for the transaction we are constructing
Inside the [`TxIn`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.TxIn.html) struct we are setting the following fields:

- `previous_output` is the outpoint of the dummy UTXO we are spending; it is a [`OutPoint`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.OutPoint.html) type.

> - `script_sig` is the script code required to spend a P2WPKH output; it is a [`ScriptBuf`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/script/struct.ScriptBuf.html) type.

Reviewer 2: As mentioned above, this needs to be modified.

Author: Done in f89936122927a1add2f309316ee924c644329c85

   This is possible because `Witness` implements the [`Default`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/default/trait.Default.html) trait.

In `let spend = TxOut {...}` we are instantiating the spend output.
Inside the [`TxOut`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/transaction/struct.TxOut.html) struct we are setting the following fields:

- `value` is the amount we are spending; it is a [`u64`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/primitive.u64.html) type.
   We are using the `const SPEND_AMOUNT` that we defined earlier.
- `script_pubkey` is the script code required to spend a P2WPKH output; it is a [`ScriptBuf`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/script/struct.ScriptBuf.html) type.
   We are using the [`script_pubkey`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/address/struct.Address.html#method.script_pubkey) method to generate the script pubkey from the receivers address.
   This will lock the output to the receiver's address.

In `let change = TxOut {...}` we are instantiating the change output.
It is very similar to the `spend` output, but we are now using the `const CHANGE_AMOUNT` that we defined earlier.

> And also we are locking the output to an address that we control:

Reviewer 2: nit: Can we also add a footnote here? We are sending to the same change address that we received funds from. ( i.e same wpkh is used in spend as well as in change) 

In practice, the change address would be a different address.

Author: Footnote added to both sw and tr in f89936122927a1add2f309316ee924c644329c85.

This computes the [BIP143](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0143.mediawiki) sighash for any flag type.
It takes the following arguments:

- `input_index` is the index of the input we are signing; it is a [`usize`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/primitive.usize.html) type.
   We are using `0` since we only have one input.
- `script_code` is the script code required to spend a P2WPKH output; it is a reference to [`Script`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/blockdata/script/struct.Script.html) type.
   We are using the `script_code` variable that we defined earlier.
- `value` is the amount of the UTXO we are spending; it is a [`u64`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/primitive.u64.html) type.
   We are using the `const DUMMY_UTXO_AMOUNT` that we defined earlier.
- `sighash_type` is the type of sighash; it is a [`EcdsaSighashType`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/sighash/enum.EcdsaSighashType.html) enum.
   We are using the [`All`](https://docs.rs/bitcoin/latest/bitcoin/sighash/enum.EcdsaSighashType.html#variant.All) variant,

>    which indicates that the sighash will include all the outputs.

Reviewer 2: all inputs and outputs

Author: Doone in f89936122927a1add2f309316ee924c644329c85 (both sw and tr)
